---
|RNP # |Title  |Category | Author |Created
|------|-------|---------|--------|--|
|000   |Proposal Genesis |Process |Render Network Team|06-06-2022
---

# What is an RNP?
Welcome to the first official RNP proposal!

RNP stands for **Render Network Proposal** and will be the format that the community can use to give input and feedback on the direction of the Render Network. This RNP (#000) will serve as a template explainer, a reference for users on the full RNP format.

Each RNP will consist of the following structure:

 1. *Title and RNP###*
 2. *Author*
 3. *Overview*
 4. *Category*
 5. *Motivation*
 6. *Stakeholders*
 7. *Implementation*
 8. *Technical Considerations*
 9. *Drawbacks*

Here is an example of how it will all work:

## Title and RNP###
Each RNP will have a title (like the one above) and a three digit RNP number that is assigned to it, pending approval and certain processes. 

## Author
This is self-explanatory, but the author(s) of the RNP should list their name(s) for accreditation. In the above case, it would be the Render Network Team

## Overview
Each RNP will also have an Overview section, where it goes into details about the proposal. This RNPs Overview section is self-explanatory.

## Category
Each RNP should have a category. There are two main categories an RNP (Render Network Proposal) can fall under: **Core** or **Process**. Core proposals have two subcategories: ***Technical*** and ***Ecosystem Fund Allocation***.

### Core: Technical
Proposals for technical changes to the Render Network requiring development review.
### Core: Ecosystem Fund Allocation
Proposals for how ecosystem funds should be utilized.
### Process
Proposals for making a change to a process or implementation. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes to the tools or environment of the Network.

## Reasoning
RNPs will also have a “*reasoning*” section. For example, this RNPs reasoning would be:

"*As the Render Network grows, its need to satisfy all stakeholders grows as well. Allowing the users of the network to help determine future features and products will benefit the project and let the most important and pressing ideas come forward.*" 

## Stakeholders
There are various stakeholders that can be referenced within the RNPs. Here is a list of all of them:

### Creators:
Creators are digital artists, developers and studios who utilize the Render Network to render their digital creations on the blockchain for a fraction of the speed and cost of standard in-house rendering or computation.
### Consumers
Consumers constitute a more passive group of creative participants of the Render Network, such as NFT collectors, gamers and fandom communities, who compose and interact with core digital assets, IP and services offered by Creators on the Render Network. NFT’s minted on Render may also enable creators to offer consumers voting power and agency on governance for their specific services and content they offer through the Render Network.
### Node Operators
Node Operators are GPU owners who have registered their machines on the Render Network to be used by Creators in order to render their work when not in use, in exchange for RNDR Tokens.
### Liquidity Providers
Liquidity Providers are RNDR Token holders who hold RNDR on applicable centralized and decentralized exchanges.
### Render Network Team
The Render Network Team are the builders and maintainers of the Render Network. This group includes the Render Network’s team of developers and blockchain engineers, and various other team members who provide services to the Render Network and run the everyday operations of the platform.
### Render Network Partners
Render Network is partnered with many groups and individuals in order to improve the capabilities of the platform. This includes companies like Multicoin, Alameda Research, NVIDIA, Google, Apple and Microsoft, as well as individuals and key advisory board members such as digital artist Beeple, Ari Emanuel (founder & CEO of Endeavor/WME/IMG) and fellow blockchain projects like Solana and Algorand.

## Implementation
The Render Network maintains a number of community chats across multiple platforms, including Telegram, Twitter, Discord, the Render Network website and Instagram. Currently a majority of news from the Render Network team is directly communicated through the Render Network Medium blog, and shared across social media channels like Telegram, Twitter and Instagram.

Because it is the most commonly used communication channel in Web3, discussions will be shifting over to Discord as it provides the most appropriate tools to facilitate and manage discussion on each RNP. The discussions may be augmented with RNP forums on the Render Network website as the number of RNPs grows over time.

### Proposal Process
RNPs are the process by which the community can affect change on the Render Network. Outlined below are all of the steps through which a community member can go from idea to implementation onto the Render Network:

 1. **RNP Idea Genesis**
An RNP Idea is first submitted as an “***Initial Proposal***” to an **admin** or **moderator** in order to create a pending RNP post on Github and a dedicated channel in the [Render Network Discord.](https://discord.gg/HFZSZXgR94) There will be a designated Discord channel created for these proposals to be submitted. The RNP must be in *.pdf format* to be reviewed by an admin.

	Proposals will be reviewed for a period of **up to 21 days**, and must conform to the Render Network guidelines and use the RNP Template before approval by an **admin** or **moderator** and becoming a RNP. Once approved, the user that posted the RNP will be notified on Discord.

	The RNP idea is then discussed within the community channel for **21 days**. The RNP cannot be changed or edited during this time – it is locked as soon as it is posted. 

 2. **RNP Draft and Submission**
Once the 21 day feedback window is over, the author of the RNP will have the opportunity to update their submission based on comments, and resubmit their RNP for an additional week of comments. If they elect not to, the Discord channel will be closed and will no longer accept new comments, and the proposal will move on to the next stage. An admin or moderator will send the creator of the RNP the “***RNP Template***” Form, where they are able to lay out the details of their proposed changes to the Network, and consider any comments made during the community discussion period.

	Once the RNP proposal has been finalized, it will be put through a "Community Snapshot vote", where the community can decide to approve or deny the proposal for further review by the Render Network Team. Each week on Monday at 3pm ET, the RNPs that are available for Snapshot vote will be released via an announcement on the Render Network Telegram, Discord and Twitter accounts. The actual voting period will last 72 hours and conclude on the respective day at 3pm ET. The vote will be a simple majority vote and will have no restrictions on total votes, supply, etc.
	
	Voters will need to have tokens present in their Layer 1 or Layer 2 wallet that they have connected to Snapshot in order to vote. All tokens currently held within a liquidity position on an exchange will not be available to be used in a given vote.

	If the proposal is approved, the RNP will then be numbered accordingly and officially added to the **Pending RNP Database** for further processing. All Pending RNPs will be put on Github if they pass through this process.

 3. **RNP Overview**
The RNP Draft will be reviewed and commented on by the Render Network team (made up of core members of the Render Network engineering team, community moderators and infrastructure developers) to make sure that it is economically and efficiently feasible, project costs and review any additional issues or topics that may pose a block to the RNP. After initial discussions, which will last between 1-7 days, an internal vote will be taken regarding whether the RNP draft is ready for approval to “***Live Pending***” status. This review process is critical to the RNP implementation in two ways:

	1. It seeks to add more color to the initial RNP in order to give the community more information for voting purposes.
	2. It puts some responsibility in the hands of the actual implementation team to perform due diligence on the RNP process.

	The review and the comments will be made public by the team on the Discord, so that the community can understand the team’s thought process and reasoning.
	
	If the RNP is approved (has been deemed technically feasible without significant roadblocks to development, as listed above), it moves onto the next step and becomes a “Live Pending RNP”. If the RNP is not approved, it can be edited and resubmitted as a new Initial Proposal, so long as the proposal has not been deemed intangible or illegitimate by the Render Network team and moderators.

 4. **Live Pending RNP and Snapshot voting**
RNPs that have passed the overview and initial vote process become ***Live Pending RNPs*** and are subject to a Snapshot every week at 8pm ET on Wednesday. Once live on Snapshot, Live Pending RNPs are open to voting for 6 days, until 8pm ET on the Tuesday after release. All RNDR Token holders will have access to voting mechanisms on proposed changes. To participate in the Snapshot vote, users must go through a wallet verification process to confirm RNDR Tokens are present in their wallet. Additionally, user delegation of voting rights will be implemented at a future date via [Tally](https://www.tally.xyz/), though voting will still take place on Snapshot.

 5. **RNP Implementation**
RNP approval will be judged on a majority of 50% of total votes cast ratio (i.e. if 100m tokens were cast for the vote, the win threshold would be 50,000,001 or greater) AND a minimum of 25% of total supply being cast to vote. For example, if the vote was 80%, but only 10,000 tokens were cast for the vote, the RNP would not pass.

	If an RNP is able to garner community approval, it will then be added to the queue for implementation. The network will continue to use GitHub as the base for RNPs, with the communication coming from Discord. The Render Network Team will be in charge of implementing said changes to the Network. Though RNP changes may not be implemented immediately, all approved RNPs will eventually be addressed and pushed onto the Network.
	
6. **Emergency Proposal and Voting Protocol**
This proposal timeline and voting threshold can be adjusted in the case of an **"Emergency Proposal and Voting"** scenario. In cases where a proposal has been deemed an emergency, for example if action needs to be taken to ensure uninterrupted operation of the Network, minimum voting thresholds and voting timelines can be adjusted in order to more urgently implement a community approved proposal. For an emergency proposal, the community comment window would be shortened to *24 hours*, and the voting threshold to move onto review and potential implementation would be increased to 33% of total supply.

** *All RNP statuses can be viewed within Github, where they will be classified as “In Review”, "Open for Voting", "Approved", "Rejected", "In Render Review", "Full Approval", “In Development” and “Implemented”.* **

## Technical Considerations
The Render Network team will be required to moderate, review, as well as track and document the RNP process in Github.

## Drawbacks
There will be a transition and learning curve from the community with regard to getting users on the Discord, however, given that Discord is the communication choice for most modern crypto projects, this should not pose a large issue. There will also likely need to be adjustments to the RNP process as new proposals come in, but the team will act swiftly to make sure that the process is seamless.

## Guidelines for RNPs

 1. Members should research previous proposals to ensure that their RNP has not already been submitted or does not conflict with a proposal up for vote.
 2. RNPs that conflict with a proposal that is currently up for vote, will only be put up for vote after a significant time has elapsed from when the first proposal was voted on in order to avoid conflicts and wasted effort.
 3. RNPs will be removed from consideration if they involve illegal activity, hate speech, pornographic material, or do not represent the mission or values of the Render Network.
 4. Technically infeasible RNPs will be removed from consideration during the review period - i.e. a component of the review process is assessing whether RNPs are actionable.

## Community Principles
* *Equality*: It is important that everyone feels like they have a voice no matter their background and however small or large they are. The network is working to bring high end 3D graphics and related digital experiences to anyone with a creative vision.
* *Constructiveness*: The network is more than the sum of its parts, and looks for positive contributions to building the future of decentralized GPU computing.
* *Transparency*: Decisions will be publicly communicated openly and communication channels will provide open, publicly accessible forums to debate the future of RNPs.

